---
layout: work
author: Michael McDermott
title: Something in Motion
slug: p2
subhead: Project 2
categories: [projects]
excerpt: For this project you will be able to choose from a few options below or create your own project. If generating your own project you need to make sure to create a schedule and similar outcomes to the projects listed below.

---

### Description
You will conceptualize, plan, design, and animate a motion project of your choosing.

Each project has a specific set of goals and requirements that should be accomplished. You will find and  generate the content that fits the description for your chosen project. If you choose to create your own project, read through these to get a feel for the scope of work required.

The projects you can choose from are a <a href="#kinetic">Kinetic Type Video</a>, a <a href="#title">Title Sequence</a>, <a href="#poster">Moving Posters</a>, or a <a href="#broadcast">Broadcast Design Package</a>.

[Reference Miro Board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVOpLIzhs=/?share_link_id=608360333282)

#### <span id="kinetic">Kinetic Type Video</span>
Make a one minute or more video combining type and audio. The audio can be a song, a clip from a show or film, a speech, etc. Keep in mind that certain aspects of the audio can influence decisions you make while animating the type so make sure you are familiar with the audio. Outside shapes, colors, and lines can be used but no pictures or videos. The video should have a title scene that includes the title for the audio and who made the audio. For example, a song would have a song title and artist name and a movie scene would have the movie title and characters involved.

##### Requirements
* At least a minute long
* Audio treated respectfully at the beginning and end
* 1920x1080 format
* Only text and paths/shapes, no outside images or video
* Title scene showing title of audio and maker of audio

##### Checkpoints
* June 27: Start
* July 6: Audio selected, project plan meeting
* July 11: Initial storyboards and 2 different concept board directions (colors, type, etc.)
* July 13: At least two refined concept boards and brief motion tests
* July 18: Title section and first section animated (at least 20 seconds)
* July 20: Refined beginning and continuing to animate (at least 40 seconds)
* July 25: Full draft (at least 60 seconds)
* July 27: Due

#### <span id="title">Title Sequence</span>
Design a title sequence for a book of your choice. The book can be any length but fiction is probably the easiest category to choose from. You cannot use any visuals associated with the book and if you pick an illustrated book you certainly cannot use the illustrations in your sequence. The book should not already be a movie and you will be responsible for generating your own cast and crew to display. Take a look at this list on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opening_credits#Common_opening_credits_order) to get an idea of who you might want to display, you don't need to display them all. The title sequence should be one minute long or more.

##### Requirements
* At least a minute long
* 1920x1080 format
* Displays names and titles for a reasonable amount of people (probably around 10 to 15)
* Displays book title and based on a story by [author] at some point
* Uses audio

##### Checkpoints
* June 27: Start
* July 6: Book selected, project plan meeting
* July 11: Initial storyboards and 2 different concept board directions (colors, type, imagery, etc.)
* July 13: At least two refined concept boards and story boards, animatic and/or motion tests with audio
* July 18: First half completed (around 30 seconds)
* July 20: Full draft completed (at least 60 seconds)
* July 25: Refined full draft
* July 27: Due

#### <span id="poster">Moving Posters</span>
Design a series of two moving posters for a future, real event or events. The posters need to be conceptually similar and visually related and could be two posters for the same event or two posters for related events (think of tour posters for a band or theater posters for different shows). The design must retain the formal elements of a poster, communicate using the traditional rhetoric of a poster, and must scale to fit the portrait format (1080x1920). The choice of movement should feel natural and not distract from the content of the poster. The movement should emphasize the message of the poster not confuse the message.

##### Requirements
* Each poster moves for the amount of time it needs to move
* Information for the event is clearly displayed
* Portrait format at 1080x1920
* Loops seamlessly

##### Checkpoints
* June 27: Start
* July 6: Event selected, project plan meeting
* July 11: Two rough drafts for each set of posters (2 directions, 4 posters) with general plan for motion
* July 13: First still digital drafts of two posters in selected direction with brief storyboard for each
* July 18: Refined still posters with motion tests
* July 20: First draft of posters in motion
* July 25: Refined draft of posters in motion
* July 27: Due

#### <span id="broadcast">Broadcast Design Package</span>
Design some motion pieces for a created TV station. You will curate a selection of shows the station will show, come up with a name and logo for the station, and generate a few motion pieces. There will be three pieces you will need to design for the station, an animated logo, lower thirds that introduce the show, tell what's coming on next, or some other information, and a station lineup that shows what day and time certain shows are happening. Some broadcast design terms and some examples you can find [here](https://motionarray.com/learn/motion-design/broadcast-design-terms/).

##### Requirements
* Station name and logo
* Single video at 1920x1080 that includes all the specific parts with titles introducing each part
* Animated logo (sting), has audio, around 5 seconds
* Lower thirds, includes the show currently on and what's on next, around 10 seconds
* Channel lineup, includes 3 shows from the channel, around 30 seconds, ends with logo sting

##### Checkpoints
* June 27: Start
* July 6: Station name, selected shows, project plan meeting
* July 11: 5 initial logo concepts with storyboards or notes for how each one might animate
* July 13: Initial logo animation with audio, concept boards for lower thirds, storyboards for channel lineup
* July 18: Refined logo animation, initial lower thirds (in motion), concept boards for channel lineup
* July 20: Refined lower thirds, initial channel lineup (in motion)
* July 25: Refined channel lineup, initial full final video
* July 27: Due
